LeGen: Complex Information Extraction from Legal sentences Using Generative Models
Paper: https://aclanthology.org/2024.nllp-1.1.pdf

What does this paper accomplish?
Performs complex information extraction from legal sentences. 

For instance:
Example Sentence:
"If the balance amount in the account of a deceased is higher than 150,000, then the nominee or legal heir has to prove the identity to claim the amount."

Step 1: Identify Clauses
LeGen first breaks the sentence into clauses (atomic parts of the sentence). For the example sentence, the clauses are:

Clause 1: "If the balance amount in the account of a deceased is higher than 150,000"

Clause 2: "then the nominee has to prove the identity to claim the amount"

Clause 3: "or legal heir has to prove the identity to claim the amount"

Step 2: Identify Relationships
Next, LeGen identifies the relationships between the clauses. In this case:

Clause 1 and Clause 2 are connected by a CONDITION relationship (the "if-then" structure).

Clause 2 and Clause 3 are connected by a DISJUNCTION relationship (the "or" structure).

Step 3: Generate Discourse Tree
LeGen constructs a discourse tree to represent the hierarchical structure of the sentence. The tree looks like this:

CONDITION(
    "If the balance amount in the account of a deceased is higher than 150,000",
    DISJUNCTION(
        "then the nominee has to prove the identity to claim the amount",
        "or legal heir has to prove the identity to claim the amount"
    )
)

Step 4: Linear Encoding
The discourse tree is then converted into a linear encoding for easier processing. The encoding for this example would look like:

CONDITION(Clause1, DISJUNCTION(Clause2, Clause3))


Step 5: Output
The final output from LeGen would be a structured representation of the sentence, capturing both the clauses and the relationships between them. This structured output can be used to build a legal knowledge graph or to power a question-answering system.

How does this work accomplish all this?
Fine-tuning LLMs
Prompting LLMs.
A new custom loss function for reducing hallucination in legal context. 
